# Chapter-02 -> Parcel  

## Theory :-

## Q: What is NPM?  
Ans:- It is a package manager which manage to provide packages of library/framework. In other words, It is a public registry i.e database of javaScript packages. Most important thing it is not a abbribiation of NPM (Node package manager).  

## Q:  What is `Parcel/Webpack`? Why do we need it?  
Ans:- Parcel is a bundler which provides superpower to our library which means dependencies i.e modules, ES modules and also support jsx, typeScript and much more. Parcel gives our project/application a faster way to execute and make it more quickly reload the application if any update. In other words, it makes our project single page application (SPA) more efficiently.  

## Q: What is `.parcel-cache`?  
 Ans:- It is a directory generated by parcel bundler, serving as a cache for storing bulid results to enhances the development workflow by speeding up subsequent builds by reducuing the time.  

 ## Q: What is `npx` ?  
 Ans:- `npx` allows developer to execute any javaScript package available on the NPM registry without even installing it.  

 ## Q: What is difference between `dependencies` vs `devDependencies`?  
 Ans:- `dependencies :-` package required to your production.  
    `devDependencies:-` package that are only required for local development and testing.  
## Q: What is `Tree Shaking`?  
Ans:- `Tree shaking` is process of removing the unwanted code that we do not use while developing the application. In computing, tree shaking is a dead code elimination technique that is applied when optimizing code.  

## Q: What is `Hot Module Replacement(HMR)`?  
Ans:- It is a powerful feature designed to enhance the development process by providing real-time updates to modules within a running appliction.  

## Q: List down your favourite 5 superpowers of Parcel and describe any 3 of them in your
own words.  
Ans:- `5 superpower of Parcel:-`  

  - `HMR (Hot Module Replacement)` - add or remove modules while an application is runing, without a full reload.  
  - `File watcher Algorithm` - It monitor directories on the file system and perform spcific action when desired files appears.  
  - `Minification` - Minification is the process of minimizing the code and markup in your web pages and script files.  
  -`Image optimization`  
  -`Caching while development`  

 ## Q: What is `.gitignore`? What should we `add and not add` into it?
Ans: The `.gitignore file` is a text file that tells `Git` which files or folders to `ignore` in a project during `commit to the repository`.
The types of files you should consider adding to a .gitignore file are any files that do not need to get committed. for example, For security, the security key files and API keys should get added to the gitignore.
`package-lock.json` should `not add` into your `.gitignore` file.

The entries in this file can also follow a matching pattern.
```
* is used as a wildcard match
/ is used to ignore pathnames relative to the .gitignore file
# is used to add comments to a .gitignore file
```
This is an example of what the .gitignore file could look like:
```
# Ignore Mac system files
.DS_store

# Ignore node_modules folder
node_modules

# Ignore all text files
*.txt

# Ignore files related to API keys
.env

# Ignore SASS config files
.sass-cache
```


## Q: What is the difference between `package.json` and `package-lock.json`?
Ans: `package.json`:
* This file is mandatory for every project
* It contains basic information about the project
* Application name/version/scripts

`package-lock.json`:
* This file is automatically generated for those operations where npm modifies either the node_module tree or package-json.
* It is generated after an npm install
* It allows future devs & automated systems to download the same dependencies as the project.
* it also allows to go back to the past version of the dependencies without actual
‘committing the node_modules folder.
* It records the same version of the installed packages which allows to reinstall them.
Future installs will be capable of building identical description tree.

**~** or **^** in `package.json` file :
These are used with the versions of the package installed.

For example  in `package.json` file:
```
"dependencies": {
    "react": "^18.2.0",
    "react-dom": "^18.2.0"
  }
```

* **~** : `Approximately equivalent to version`, will update you to all future patch versions, without incrementing the minor version.
* **^** : `Compatible with version`, will update you to all future minor/patch versions, without incrementing the major version.

> If none of them is present, that means only the version specified in `package.json` file is used in the development.


## Q: Why should I not modify `package-lock.json`?
A: `package-lock.json` file contains the information about the dependencies and their versions used in the project. Deleting it would cause dependencies issues in the production environment. So don't modify it, It's being handled automatically by NPM.

## Q: What is `node_modules` ? Is it a good idea to push that on git?
A: `node_modules` folder like a cache for the external modules that your project depends upon. When you npm install them, they are downloaded from the web and copied into the node_modules folder and Nodejs is trained to look for them there when you import them (without a specific path).
`Don't push node_modules`in github because it contains lots of files(more than 100 MB), it will cost you memory space.


## Q: What is the `dist` folder?
A: The `/dist` folder contains the minimized version of the source code. The code present in the `/dist` folder is actually the code which is used on production web applications. Along with the minified code, the /dist folder also comprises of all the compiled modules that may or may not be used with other systems.


## Q: What is `browserslist`?
A: `Browserslist` is a tool that allows specifying which browsers should be supported in your frontend app by specifying "queries" in a config file. It's used by frameworks/libraries such as React, Angular and Vue, but it's not limited to them. 



